- [Instructor] Let's see the next steps now.
Map static resources in the context configuration class.
Add view resolver in context configuration for JSPs.
So this is something that we already covered
in the previous video.
The next big this is you have to add
database configuration in your .properties file.
So if you remember,
when we inspected the folder's structure,
we said we already have an application.properties file.
Now, this is the file that we'll use
in order to do the database property configuration setup.
Now, do not have to worry, you just have to pick it up
from your resources folder.
It's there already.
So if you see, in the same file,
just going to reopen that file,
and on line 15 to line 18, I have all the properties
that are respective to the Spring JPA API,
and its integration with MySQL server.
So I'm just going to pick that up, copy, let's go to IDE,
and paste them in the properties file.
So, this is basically resulting out of the integration
of Spring with the MySQL server using JPA API,
so those are the properties
that you're to define for your database.
We are going to spawn a database server
locally on port 3306, HPlus is the database name,
and the credentials for the database are root, root.
So that configuration has to be in place.
Please note that if you do not do this configuration,
there will be an error that you will get at the startup.
Why?
Because we have included in pom.xml
the dependency for MySQL connector,
which means it will expect that you provide
the database configuration beforehand.
Once that's done, let's add a HomeController
to go to the home page.
Now this is exactly same as we have done
in the previous project that we created,
so I'm just going to go to Spring
and we see Maven, which is this.
Take the HomeController, copy, come back to HPlus,
and paste it under a separate folder now.
Let's call it controllers.
So nothing is going to change here.
We still have the index page, which is a part
of WEB-INF, jsp, so nothing changes there.
This URL pattern can be returned as well.
No changes there, so that's all.
And now, the last step will be
to build and run the application.
Let's go back and a couple of things to note here.
When we generated this project,
we had two classes that came with it.
One is ServletInitializer,
which extends SpringBootServletInitializer.
If you inspect this class, you'll find out
that it actually implements WebApplicationInitializer.
This is the same interface that we configured
in the previous project to bootstrap
the DispatcherServlet class.
So this is already in place for us
and if you want to have a better control,
you can definitely put in any configuration
inside this configure method on line number nine.
Additionally, there's an HPlusappApplication,
which is going to help us run a Spring application
from a traditional WAR archive.
WAR is what we chose as the packaging strategy
for this project when we generated it.
It will also make sure that it'll bind the servlet filter
and ServletContextInitiliazer beans
from the application context to the server.
So this application can be run both
by the deploying the WAR on a Tomcat server
and executing it as a self-executable WAR
with embedded Tomcat.
Please understand that since this is a Spring Boot project,
it comes embedded Tomcat server.
Just let's recap quickly.
If you look at this dependency,
that is supposed to be doing the job for us,
so we already have an embedded server
that Spring Boot has configured for us.
So we can run this main method
and then, run our WAR so that the application
is up and running.
However, the standard practice
while using a Spring Boot application
is to go to that Maven tab
and if you see under the Plugins,
you have a Spring Boot plugin ready for you.
Spring Boot advices that you always run your project
using this Spring Boot plugin, which is configured
by default when you generate
the project in Spring Initializer.
So I'm going to take this
and make sure that I double-click.
When I double click, it'll compile.
It will create the WAR
and it will run our WAR against
the embedded ServletContainer,
the Tomcat container, which is already present
as a part of this application.
So now let's open a browser.
For the Spring Boot application,
all the requests will be served from local host,
so that it'll be http, localhost, port number 8080.
So that is the default opening URL for your application
and now, you just have to make sure that you give
your URL pattern for the controller that you want to invoke,
so let's hit this.
We have our index JSP, which is now rendered,
of course, with Spring MVC,
but this project entirely has been built with Spring Boot.
So we will build the successive use cases
that we have as a part of this course
on this HPlus application.
Just one important point here that I'm going to iterate.
We run this project using Spring Boot
run target of the Spring Boot plugin,
which was provided to us by default in the pom.xml
when we generated this entire
Spring Boot project with SpringInitializer.
And as I said, Spring Boot advices you to use this plugin.
However, there is another way
for you to deploy this application.
What you could do is if you go up there
on the project lifecycle, you could use clean
and the install targets.
Now these two, if you run,
that will generate a WAR file for you,
and once that WAR gets generated,
it will be placed into your target folder.
Now you can open a command prompt.
Go to the IdeaProjects folder,
go to your specific folder,
and here, you can use the java command
and execute that WAR file with the minus jar argument.
So what you have to do after minus jar
is provide the path to the WAR file
and that will be picked up, as I said,
from the target folder of your project.
So this is another way of deploying your application
and getting it up and running.
However, Spring Boot plugin, as we said, is very convenient,
so if you just double-click this,
it is always going to do that same job for you.
A while before, we did discuss that the HPlus application
classes main method will allow you to run
the WEB archive file that your project is packaged into.
However, if you try to run your application
using this HPlus application's main method,
then your JSPs may not be rendered correctly.
You will end up getting some exceptions on the console.
The problem is that Spring Boot
does not offer full support for JSPs.
There's a limited support for it,
which is why, if you remember in the pom.xml,
during the initial setup of the project,
we ended up adding dependency for the javax.servlet,
jstl, and tomcat-embed-jasper.
So, two options of running the project;
you use the Spring Boot plugin or you create a WAR
and run it using java minus jar.